Update to 1.21.2 (#178)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/resources/server/recipes/index.md

# Recipes

> Recipes are a datapack registry used as a way to transform a set of objects into other objects within a Minecraft world. Although Minecraft uses this system purely for item transformations, the system is built in a way that allows any kind of objects - blocks, entities, etc. - to be transformed. Almost all recipes use recipe data files; a "recipe" is assumed to be a data-driven recipe in this article unless explicitly stated otherwise.

Author: True, though they are functionally treated as one. I'll remove the change.

```json5
{
    // The recipe type. This maps to an entry in the recipe serializer registry.
    "type": "minecraft:crafting_shaped",
    // A list of data load conditions. Optional, NeoForge-added. See the article linked above for more information.
    "neoforge:conditions": [ /*...*/ ]
}
```

A full list of types provided by Minecraft can be found in the [Built-In Recipe Types article][builtin]. Mods can also [define their own recipe types][customrecipes].

## Using Recipes

> Recipes are registered, stored and obtained via the `RecipeManager` class, which is in turn obtained via `ServerLevel#recipeAccess` or - if you don't have a `ServerLevel` available - `ServerLifecycleHooks.getCurrentServer()#getRecipeManager`. The server does not sync the recipes to the client in their entirety, instead it only sends the `RecipePropertySet`s for restricting inputs on menu slots and the `RecipeDisplayEntry`s for the recipe book. All recipe logic should always run on the server.

Author: Well, that's not true either. The recipe itself is never sent over, only the recipe display entry, which holds the recipe display. However, I will change my wording slightly.

> Recipes are loaded, stored and obtained via the `RecipeManager` class, which is in turn obtained via `ServerLevel#recipeAccess` or - if you don't have a `ServerLevel` available - `ServerLifecycleHooks.getCurrentServer()#getRecipeManager`. The server does not sync the recipes to the client by default, instead it only sends the `RecipePropertySet`s for restricting inputs on menu slots. Additionally, whenever a recipe is unlocked for the recipe book, its `RecipeDisplay`s via `RecipeDisplayEntry`s are sent to the client (excluding all recipes where `Recipe#isSpecial` returns true) As such, recipe logic should always run on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recipes are loaded, stored and obtained via the `RecipeManager` class, which is in turn obtained via `ServerLevel#recipeAccess` or - if you don't have a `ServerLevel` available - `ServerLifecycleHooks.getCurrentServer()#getRecipeManager`. The server does not sync the recipes to the client by default, instead it only sends the `RecipePropertySet`s for restricting inputs on menu slots. Additionally, whenever a recipe is unlocked for the recipe book, its `RecipeDisplay`s and the corresponding `RecipeDisplayEntry`s are sent to the client (excluding all recipes where `Recipe#isSpecial` returns true) As such, recipe logic should always run on the server.
```

> ## Custom Recipes

Reviewer: Since this section has become significantly larger in this update, it might be worth moving it to a separate article.

NeoForge allows users to specify their own `ExtendedRecipeBookCategory` as a search category via `RegisterRecipeBookSearchCategoriesEvent#register` on the mod event bus. `register` takes in the `ExtendedRecipeBookCategory` representing the search category and the `RecipeBookCategory`s that make up that search category. The `ExtendedRecipeBookCategory` search category does not need to be registered to some static vanilla registry.

```java
// In some location
public static final ExtendedRecipeBookCategory RIGHT_CLICK_BLOCK_SEARCH_CATEGORY = new ExtendedRecipeBookCategory() {};

// On the mod event bus
@SubscribeEvent
public static void registerSearchCategories(RegisterRecipeBookSearchCategoriesEvent event) {
    event.register(
        // The search category
        RIGHT_CLICK_BLOCK_SEARCH_CATEGORY,
        // All recipe categories within the search category as varargs
        RIGHT_CLICK_BLOCK_CATEGORY.get()
    )
}
```

### Placement Info

> A `PlacementInfo` is meant to define the crafting requirements used by the recipe consumer to determine what recipes can be placed in workbench-type. `PlacementInfo` are only meant for item ingredients, so if other types of ingredients are desired (e.g., fluid, block), the surrounding logic will need to be implemented from scratch. In these cases, the recipe can be labelled as not placeable, and say as such via `PlacementInfo#NOT_PLACEABLE`. However, if there is at least one item-like object in your recipe, you should create a `PlacementInfo`.

Reviewer: "what recipes can be placed in workbench-type" this sentence doesn't really make sense afaict?

            // Create placement info
            this.info = PlacementInfo.createFromOptionals(ingredients);
        }

        return this.info;
    }
}
```

### Slot Displays

`SlotDisplay`s represent the information on what should render in what slot when viewed by a recipe consumer, like a recipe book. A `SlotDisplay` has two methods. First there's `resolve`, which takes in the `ContextMap` containing the available registries and fuel values (as shown in `SlotDisplayContext`); and the current `DisplayContentsFactory`, which accepts the contents to display for this slot; and returns the transformed list of contents into the output to be accepted. Then there's `type`, which holds the [`MapCodec`][codec] and [`StreamCodec`][streamcodec] used to encode/decode the display.

`SlotDisplay`s are typically implemented on the [`Ingredient` via `#display`, or `ICustomIngredient#display` for modded ingredients][ingredients]; however, in some cases, the input may not be an ingredient, meaning a `SlotDisplay` will need to use one available, or have a new one created.

These are the available slot displays provided by Vanilla and NeoForge:

> - `SlotDisplay.Empty`: A slot that represents nothing.

Reviewer: This is displayed weirdly, check the preview. I think it's because of the blank lines between two list elements? This also affects the `DisplayContentsFactory` list below.

        return switch (factory) {
            // Check for our contents factory and transform if necessary
            case ForBlockStates<T> states -> Stream.of(states.forState(this.state));
            // If you want the contents to be handled differently depending on contents display
            //   then you can case on other displays like so
            case ForStacks<T> stacks -> Stream.of(stacks.forStack(state.getBlock().asItem()));
            // If no factories match, then do not return anything in the transformed stream
            default -> Stream.empty();
        }
    }

    @Override
    public SlotDisplay.Type<? extends SlotDisplay> type() {
        // Return the registered type from below
        return BLOCK_STATE_SLOT_DISPLAY.get();
    }
}

// In some registrar class
/// For some DeferredRegister<SlotDisplay.Type<?>> SLOT_DISPLAY_TYPES
public static final Supplier<SlotDisplay.Type<BlockStateSlotDisplay>> BLOCK_STATE_SLOT_DISPLAY = SLOT_DISPLAY_TYPES.register(
    "block_state",
    () -> new SlotDisplay.Type<>(BlockStateSlotDisplay.CODEC, BlockStateSlotDisplay.STREAM_CODEC)
);
```

### Recipe Display

> A `RecipeDisplay` is the same as a `SlotDisplay`, except that it represents an entire recipe. The default interface only keeps track of the `result` of recipe and the `craftingStation` which represents the workbench where the recipe is applied. The `RecipeDisplay` also has a `type` that holds the [`MapCodec`][codec] and [`StreamCodec`][streamcodec] used to encode/decode the display.However, subtypes of `RecipeDisplay` contains all the information required to properly render the slot on the client. As such, we will need to create our own `RecipeDisplay`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `RecipeDisplay` is the same as a `SlotDisplay`, except that it represents an entire recipe. The default interface only keeps track of the `result` of recipe and the `craftingStation` which represents the workbench where the recipe is applied. The `RecipeDisplay` also has a `type` that holds the [`MapCodec`][codec] and [`StreamCodec`][streamcodec] used to encode/decode the display. However, no available subtypes of `RecipeDisplay` contain all the information required to properly render our recipe on the client. As such, we will need to create our own `RecipeDisplay`.
```

Now that all parts of your recipe are complete, you can make yourself some recipe JSONs (see the [datagen] section for that) and then query the recipe manager for your recipes, like above. What you then do with the recipe is up to you. A common use case would be a machine that can process your recipes, storing the active recipe as a field.

In our case, however, we want to apply the recipe when an item is right-clicked on a block. We will do so using an [event handler][event]. Keep in mind that this is an example implementation, and you can alter this in any way you like (so long as you run it on the server). As we want the interaction state to match on both the client and server, we will also need to [sync any relevant input states across the network][networking].

```java

> // A basic packet class, must be registered.

Reviewer: Separate networking and actual recipe matching logic into two codeblocks, please.

public record ClientboundRightClickBlockRecipesPayload(
    Set<BlockState> inputStates, Set<Holder<Item>> inputItems
) implements CustomPacketPayload {

    // ...
}

> // Packet stores data in an instance class.

Reviewer: Blank line between two classes for readability.
